---
layout: post
title:  "WIP How we do hiring at Edurio"
time: 2022-06-24
author: Strods
status: 🌱
---
# {{ page.title }}


At Edurio we typically do the following 6 to 7 steps in our search for a new team member.

1. Application screening
2.  A first chat
3.  A homework task
4.  A task- and experience-oriented interview
5.  A culture-oriented interview
6.  A couple of reference calls
7.  A strategy-focused interview (for our team leads and other key hires)
8.  A decision meeting

These steps are all tracked in a beautiful spreadsheet, courtesy of Agnese and Jurgis from our Ops Team (we still have not introduced an applicant tracking system beyond that, but we're working on it).

## CV screening

We've received a CV, that's great! We now want to decide if the likelihood of candidate – role match is strong enough for us to invest time on the first call and a task.

**How?**

<aside>Our first step is entering the candidate's contact details and a summary of their experience in our master hiring spreadsheet. We then quickly score them on key areas of their CVs (e.g. "matching experience / 0-3", where 0 means none, and 3 — they've done exactly what we expect them to do at Edurio).<br><br>
Somebody then sense-checks that table (in particular, the sum of the scores) and makes a call on which candidates are clearly worth not talking to (we email them and explain the mismatch), and which move on to the next stage — the first conversation.</aside>

**Who?**

At Edurio, this is typically done by the Operations Team, but the criteria should always be discussed with the team leads. They should also sense check the outcomes after a few CVs have been screened.

<aside> 👈 "Who?" is the element that's changed the most as we've grown. We've moved from "founders do everything" to "team leads do this now" to "we now have an Ops Team to help".

</aside>

For our "first" roles (e.g. first copywriter, first architect, etc.), we expect the team leads to have a much greater involvement than the Operations Team, as it requires domain expertise, not just implementation.

**How to perform well?**

The most important thing we're looking for is seeing how your past experience and skills match the needs of the role. Clear, brief CVs + a couple of sentences that allow us seem to work best.

## First chat

The first chat is the second major filter of the hiring process. It is also the most important one, because candidates passing this stage will be invited to complete the hiring task — a time-consuming commitment for them and for us.

We aim to learn a few critical pieces of information in this chat: Is there a match between the candidate's motivation and what we have to offer? Is there a match on values and Have they understood the role accurately? What about the weird pattern / red flag X that we saw in the CV?

**How?**

S

## Tasks

Nothing provides clearer signals about a candidate's ability to do work than seeing them do work. And, keeping a neat little symmetry, nothing says more about a workplace than seeing how they communicate about work. The task is the tool with the best signal-to-noise tool ratio at our disposal, and it should both be informative and generate a solid basis for a conversation during the interviews.

**How?**

When designing a task, it's important to abstract yourself from an exam mindset — you are not evaluating a "right" or "wrong" approach to do things. Instead, you want to have a task that is:

-   Challenging enough
-   Reasonable in length — both for the candidate and yourself**.** We are aiming for all the tasks to be reasonably completable in around 4 hours of work, so we don't exploit folks' spare time unnecessarily. Also — you will be providing feedback to all candidates, including those that are not moving to the next stage in the interview process, so you better don't exaggerate the amount of stuff.

> 👈 [Revolut's experiment in asking unpaid candidates to bring in new customers for the company is still the most spectacularly horrid startup thing I've heard](https://www.wired.co.uk/article/revolut-trade-unions-labour-fintech-politics-storonsky).

-   Generates conversation. Unless, of course, you require punctuality.

**Who?**

Crafting the task is exclusively on the Team Leads (they know our expectations best!), and the Operations Team is extremely helpful in tracking the process and nudging people (both candidates and Team Leads) about progress.

## Task and skills interview

## Culture interview

## Reference calls

## [Optional] Strategy interview

## Decision meeting